[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>SUE MORTER: The man
sitting with us today
has had the cure for
cancer for 40 years.
You may not know his name,
and the FDA certainly
doesn't want you to.
He's been called a quack,
a fraud, and a criminal.
The government has tried to
take away his medical license
and throw him in jail,
all because he has
the key we've been looking for.
Welcome Dr. Burzynski
to "Healing Matrix."
>>STANISLAW BURZYNSKI:
It's my pleasure.
Thank you.
>>SUE: Absolutely.
Take a look at his
four-decade long fight.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>RICK SCHIFF: My name
is Sergeant Rick Schiff.
I'm an 11-year veteran of
the San Francisco Police
Department.
What I'd like to talk
to you about today
is my now 7-year-old daughter.
This is an identical twin.
Her sister is now dead.
Her sister, when she
was four years old,
Kristen, developed a highly
malignant brain tumor
that had spread throughout
her spine and her brain.
The doctors told us that
we had really two options--
take her home, let
her die or bring her
in for massive dosages of chemo
and radiation simultaneously.
In either event, she
was going to die.
They were quite certain
of that and very quickly.
Believing her only chance
to be the standard route,
we gave her the
chemo and radiation.
It burned her skull so bad,
she had second-degree burns,
and her hair never came back.
To change her diapers, we
had to wear rubber gloves
because her urine was so
toxic, and it burned her.
At the end of six months,
miraculously she survived
the standard treatment, although
there was a high expectation
she wouldn't.
She still had cancer.
We were told, sorry, we've
done everything we can.
Now she's going to die, probably
within a couple of months.
My wife and I, choosing
not to accept that,
started reading a
first book I picked up,
the third chapter,
discussed Dr. Burzynski.
I have no doubt
that he does what
he does out of earnest belief
that his medicine works.
But it's well-established by
the FDA that it's non-toxic.
We put her back on
Burzynski's-- by the way,
at the objections
of our doctors,
for some reason felt
that it had failed her--
we put her back on.
Within nine weeks, the
tumor was completely gone.
She died last July of
neurological necrosis.
Her brain fell apart
from the radiation.
The autopsy showed that she
was completely cancer free.
Out of 52 cases of
that disease ever,
no one died cancer
free, just Krissy.
So she didn't die of
a terminal illness.
She died of my inability
to care for properly,
and she died from bad advice.
She died because there's a
government institution that
disseminates false information
and is not looking out
for welfare of the people
>>JULIAN WHITAKER: I first
heard of Dr. Burzynski
back in the late 1980s when he
was in a battle with the Texas
Medical Board and
the FDA regarding
his innovative
approach to cancer.
Dr. Burzynski had MRIs
of brain tumors known
to be almost universally fatal,
and it simply disappeared.
It was obvious to me
that Dr. Burzynski
had made the most important
discovery in cancer treatment
ever.
>> While undergoing his
research to acquire his PhD, Dr.
Burzynski made a
profound discovery.
He found a strain of peptides
in human blood and urine
that had never
before been recorded
in biomedical research.
As his curiosity in
these peptides evolved,
he made another
profound observation--
people who were
inflicted with cancer
seemed to lack these
newly discovered peptides
in both their blood
and urine, while those
who were healthy
and free of cancer
appeared to have an abundance.
>>BURZYNSKI: The worst type of
cancer can be cured for good.
The people who are surviving,
they live normal life.
No side effects of treatment.
No symptoms, no signs
of tumors, back to life.
>> Since Dr. Burzynski began
treating cancer patients with
antineoplastons, he has
successfully treated virtually
every type of cancer, relieving
thousands of families from
across the world of
this dread disease.
Yet, unlike other
clinical trials,
which are supported by
billion-dollar pharmaceutical
companies and are often assisted
by large tax-funded research
grants from the National
Cancer Institute,
the United States
government currently
prohibits any taxpayer money to
be granted to Dr. Burzynski's
FDA-approved clinical trials.
>>WHITAKER: The
problem that we face,
however, is that a
huge financial house
has been built on the
paradigm of purging
the body of cancer cells.
Burzynski's discovery means
that the foundation, the walls,
and the roof of that
house need to be replaced.
Think about it.
You know, you've got
thousands of doctors
in oncology and in oncology
residency programs.
You've got the
pharmaceutical industry
pumping out chemotherapeutic
agents every month.
There are all kinds of machines
that deliver radiation.
You've got all this stuff
in the war on cancer.
And it's trillions of dollars.
>> Dr. Burzynski, his patients,
and other supporting scientists
have made every conceivable
effort to get the FDA and thus
the government to cooperate
in the research, review,
and approval of
antineoplastons since 1977.
In 1986, Dr. Burzynski agreed
to present to the Texas State
Board of Medical
Examiners 40 cases
of various types of
cancer he had successfully
treated using
antineoplastons in patients
ranging from breast, bladder,
lung, liver, brain, head
and neck, and lymphoma.
After submitting these
cases to the medical board,
he didn't hear back
from them, leaving
him to assume that the
board was satisfied
and would leave him in peace.
However, two years
later, the board
came back again, pretended
that the cases he submitted
were not successful,
and claimed he
was violating a law
that didn't exist,
which was grounds for the board
to cancel, revoke, or suspend
his license.
After about five years of this,
60 of Dr. Burzynski's patients
petitioned the board to
stop harassing their doctor.
The board then tried to ignore
these petitions by attempting
to strike them from the record.
Finally, in May of 1993,
this case went to trial.
>> You intend to continue doing
just what you've been doing
until somebody is able to
stop you, is that not true?
>>BURZYNSKI: I'm going
to do what the law will
allow me to do, Mr. Helmcamp.
I do whatever is necessary to
bring my medicines to approval
in the United States and
everywhere in the world
and bring you to
justice for causing
the deaths of 200 patients.
>>EARL CORBITT: I never
was quite clear what
the board's problem was.
The board did not bring
any expert witnesses
to contest points that were
raised by Dr. Burzynski.
>> They had a raid of his
clinic where they seized 200,000
pieces of paper, including
all of his medical records.
>>BURZYNSKI: It took us
about 12 years or 14 years
to recover these
medical records.
The smear campaign against us
continues from good doctors,
from the American
Medical Association,
from American Cancer Society,
despite the fact that it
should shop a long time ago.
>>SUE: So how is it?
Are you still
fighting with the FDA?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, no.
At this moment, we are
enjoying working relationship
with the FDA.
We are exchanging
correspondence.
Basically, I think we
are now talking mostly
with the computers with FDA.
But we are moving forward.
So we are not fighting.
>>SUE: So have any
of your drugs been
approved by the FDA for
distribution and treatment?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
One of them has been approved.
It's a prescription medication.
And we are now working
to increase indication
for this medication.
Means to spread to a
larger number of cancer.
We are working on
two other medications
in final approval steps, which
is phase III clinical trials.
>>SUE: So experts are telling
us that there is a quantum shift
happening with cancer therapy.
Can you say more about
what is happening now?
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
Well, the current
approach to cancer
was introduced a long time
ago, about 170 years ago,
by a great doctor, whose
name was Rudolf Virchow,
and he introduced
diagnosis of cancer
by looking under a microscope.
And since then, the
doctors were asking,
well, let's have
pathology examination look
under a microscope and
put the label on cancer.
This is the breast cancer,
this is a lung cancer,
this is cancer of
the ovary, et cetera.
And then once they
did it, the government
gave them instructions,
treat everybody the same way.
OK?
Because everybody's the same.
It wasn't the
American idea, it was
I think Joseph Stalin's idea
that everybody's the same.
But in America, somehow
they embraced it,
they introduce
instructions to doctors,
treat everybody who has the same
name of cancer the same way,
without looking
into differences.
So basically, once they put
the label, they treat this way.
But now we realize
that the cancer
is caused by abnormal genes.
There are a large
number of abnormal genes
in individual cancer, from
about 40 to 650 abnormal genes.
So if you don't identify
what is causing cancer,
and genes are causing
cancer, you're
not going to get rid of this.
So suddenly, there is a shift.
Last year, FDA approved
two medications
to treat any type of cancer
across the board in which there
is a mutation of a single gene.
That's going away from
treating the label,
well, breast cancer,
lung cancer, whatever.
They said treat any
cancer possible in which
you find mutation
of single gene,
because this medication
works on this gene,
and it works at
about 90% certainty.
So that's a big shift.
Very few doctors
noted this, but that's
the beginning of the end
of the previous approach.
Now, in the future, we
hope that the doctors
will be treating genes
which are causing cancer
rather than the
name of the cancer.
And when they do it, they'll
be able to cure cancer.
And that's what I was trying
to do for many, many years.
Basically, I introduced this
into cancer treatment in 1976.
And we were able to cure
the first patient in 1977.
But since then,
we are developing,
and our approach is to find
which genes are causing cancer,
treat these genes,
get rid of the tumors,
and get rid of abnormal genes
which are causing cancer.
Then, the person can be cured.
>>SUE: So this is an entire
shift in the entire approach
to the treatment of cancer.
Rather than treating
the effects,
we are trying to move back
toward an earlier domino that
fell and treat the cause, with
much of a less toxifying effect
all at the same time.
>>BURZYNSKI: That's
a big change.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>BURZYNSKI: It's
the last things
similar change happen is then
when the antibiotics were
introduced.
It took a long time.
Dr. Fleming reported the
discovery of penicillin,
then for 10 years very few
people paid attention to it.
Finally, you got a war, and
then you did antibiotics
to treat the wounds.
But then they began to treat,
well, infection of the wound,
pneumonia, infection of
the bladder, whatever.
Ultimately, the good doctor
realized, no, infections
are not caused by bad
spirits, by odors,
they're caused by germs.
Let's identify the germs.
Let's treat the germs.
It took them a while
to understand it.
Finally, when they
got it, and they
got a good success, great
success, to treat infection,
because they treated the germs.
They did Staphylococcus,
E coli, whatever,
with proper antibiotics.
Now, similarly to
getting cancer is
something, the
name of the cancer,
that beginning to
treat the genes.
We are still far
away from this, OK?
It takes time.
We are doing this
for many years.
We are doing this in
our daily practice,
but it requires very
complex approach.
But it can be very useful.
We can get rid of
cancer ultimately.
>>SUE: Yes.
Well, cancer is a much
more serious condition
than the average infection
that we deal with.
And you are definitely
approaching and addressing
this from this most
amazing perspective.
>>BURZYNSKI: This is very,
very complex problem,
because in the
complex infection,
you may have a combination
of three, two germs,
and you use a combination
of two to three antibiotics.
In cancer, you have from
40 to 650 abnormal genes.
So you need to find the right
combination of the medication,
which covers these genes.
Our medications,
which I discovered,
they cover 100 most important
genes in any cancer.
But this may not be enough.
You may need to add some
other medications to cover
the genes which are not
covered by other medications.
>>SUE: So is curative treatment
possible for these terminal
cancer patients when
it is this serious?
Is it able to be turned around?
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
And that's what we
see in our practice.
We see great people.
They have perfect credential.
They graduated from the
best medical facilities
in the world, and they
were told go home, stay
and wait because you may
have one month of life left.
They're coming to us
from all over the world,
and they would like to fight.
So we identify the genes.
We put together the program
which will treat these genes.
And you can see that the
tumors are melting away, even
after one or two months.
But that's not the
end of the story.
We would like to get
rid of the tumors,
and then we would like to
get rid of mutated genes.
And that's the next step.
And it can be done.
Once this is done, well,
let's live happily ever after.
OK?
We have patients who are
surviving over 30 years
and who came to us with
terminal cancer initially.
>>SUE: 30 years.
>>BURZYNSKI: Over 30 years.
35 I think is a record, but--
>>SUE: It's impressive.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
>>SUE: That's
incredibly impressive.
>>BURZYNSKI: It's
not just one year,
and you claim, oh,
we cure this cancer.
No.
It's many, many years when
they live cancer free,
and they live a
normal life, and they
don't have any problem
from adverse reactions
of their medications or
bad effects of cancer.
So that's what I call cure.
>>SUE: They are cured.
>>BURZYNSKI: Get rid of
cancer, get rid of bad genes,
live happily ever after, OK?
Live a normal life.
OK?
>>SUE: So how do we
define cure and remission?
Can you just share
that for our audience.
>>BURZYNSKI: Sure.
Well, statistically
and ideologically,
remission is defined as
decrease and disappearance
of the tumors.
And if the tumor is
decreased by more than 50%,
it is defined as
partial remission.
When they are gone, by
the radiological methods,
you say complete remission.
But radiological methods,
they are not perfect.
They can miss the
nodules, which contain
malignant cells, which are
less than 0.2 centimeter
in diameter.
And this means they
can miss something
like perhaps 100 million
malignant cells which are still
in the body.
So this is the first step.
Then you come to find
out you can get rid
of the genes which are
causing the problem.
Certainly, we have
now great technology,
which can tell us about it.
We have laboratory tests.
We have blood tests, which are
approved by the government,
which are covered by insurance.
Usually patients, they need
to pay anything for it.
You can have the
answer in one week.
What are the most important
cancer genes in your blood,
at a great sensitivity.
And the sensitivity which
is 100 million times higher
than radiological methods.
OK?
So first, you get
rid of the tumors,
then you get rid
of abnormal genes.
Once you do it, well,
hopefully it won't come back.
But still, you may
repeat a laboratory test
to find out if these genes
are coming back or not.
If they come back, you
can get rid of them
again before they
produce tumors.
You have to get
rid of the program
in the body which is instructing
the body how to make cancer.
This is a cyber war, OK?
It's an informational war.
Get rid of the software
in the body, which
is providing instructions
how to make cancer.
Once you do it, you're done.
OK?
And the clue to
success is, if you
have the genes
which can be treated
very current medication, if
you do, it can be accomplished.
If you don't, you have to wait
until a new medication will
be introduced, which can
treat these abnormal genes.
>>SUE: So first, you're
stopping the runaway train,
and then you're going back and
taking a look at how it got out
of control to begin with.
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
Well, unfortunately,
we see some patients
who are in terrible condition.
They've been brought to
us in coma, whatever.
So we are fighting for their
life at the very beginning.
We need to stabilize them,
and they may not survive,
because they're so terrible.
But usually, in a
couple of weeks,
we got rid of this
emergency situation.
And then, the first thing
we need to find out,
can we decrease the tumors?
And when we are dealing
with malignant tumors,
the answer may come in
one month or two months.
We repeat the scans and
find, OK, the tumors
have decreased a great
deal or they're gone.
So then, you try to
get rid of the genes.
It may take another three
months, and it may happen.
If these are hereditary
abnormal genes, which
happens in small number
of cancer patients,
then we may not be able
to get rid of them,
unless there's only one copy
of the gene, which is abnormal.
In such situations,
it's possible.
But this is minority
of the patients.
In most of the patients,
the abnormal genes
occurred during patient life
and the influence of viruses,
chemicals, variety of factors.
And they can be eliminated.
>>SUE: It's phenomenal.
Dr. Burzynski, let's talk
about the development
of your approach that
you offer your patients
when they come to your clinic.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
Well, when the
patient comes to us,
we would like to know what
we are facing, what kind
of situation we are facing.
So we need to know how
many tumors do we have?
Where are the tumors?
We need to know the history
of previous treatments.
We need to do it quickly,
because these patients have
a very short lifespan.
Then, we need to run the
studies for the genes.
We order the blood tests, which
is done by a different company.
And in about a week,
we have the results,
which shows, OK, in this patient
we have something like 10,
maybe 20 mutated genes.
We know what kind of genes you
have, what kind of mutation.
We know what is
the concentration
of these genes in billion part
of gram per cubic cc of blood.
And then we put together
the treatment plan.
We implement it.
We look for improvement
in patient condition.
If we see that a patient shortly
is improving clinically, then
after the first month,
we repeat the scan.
This is MRI for
the brain tumors,
and we see what happened
to this patient.
In some patients, we see
that active tumor is gone.
But it's not the
end of the story.
In some others, we see,
no, it's not working.
We need to change
our treatment plan,
use different combination
of medications.
Try it again for another month
and hopefully is going to work.
And ultimately, the
patient is going home.
He's taken treatment
at home under the care
of local oncologist, and they
don't need to come to us.
Everything goes well.
Just when we finish the
treatment, and that's about it.
>>SUE: What is considered
the golden standard
for the diagnosis and
treatment of cancer?
>>BURZYNSKI: The golden standard
is pathology diagnosis, which
is nothing wrong is this.
It just identify what
kind of cancer it is.
This is breast cancer,
this is adenocarcinoma,
or squamous cell carcinoma.
There are different
types of cancer,
and that's the first step.
It's good.
But after that, you
need to understand
that under the
single name, there
may be 100,000 different
varieties because
of different genes.
So then we need to find
out what is causing this.
If you are serious about
getting rid of this,
we need to find out
what is causing this.
I am talking about
advanced cases.
If these are easy cases,
when the tumor can
be easily removed, and the
patient is cured, that's fine.
But I'm talking about when
the cancer has spread.
In such cases, usually cannot
be cured by standard treatment,
unless we find what is causing
this and we hit the cause
of the problem.
>>SUE: And how old is this
golden standard approach?
How long has that
been in existence?
>>BURZYNSKI: It got
introduced is an 1845.
>>SUE: It might be
outdated a little bit.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
>>SUE: We might have
progressed beyond.
>>BURZYNSKI: Obviously, it
was perfected, because we got
better microscope, et cetera.
But 1845 was the date
when this was introduced.
Well, three years
before Charles Marx
presented his
theory, which really
turned the world upside down.
>>SUE: Dr. Burzynski synthesizes
these antineoplastons in his
state-of-the-art laboratory
in Houston, Texas.
Let's take a look at his lab.
>> Dr. Burzynski's manufacturing
facility in Stafford, Texas,
where his antineoplastons
are now synthesized,
is a multi-million dollar
46,000 square foot facility,
which staffs five
engineers, four chemists,
three pharmacists, four medical
doctors, and four researchers.
>>SUE: Mighty impressive.
And this is all you.
This is you privately
funding this, making
this happen in this fashion.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
Well, in order to be serious
about approval of medication,
you need to meet very
difficult standard of the FDA.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: Which
means everything
should be manufactured according
to current good manufacturing
practice.
It means you need
to build factory.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: And I decided
to build a factory.
>>SUE: Yes, you did.
>>BURZYNSKI: We build a factory.
FDA approved this for making
medication for clinical trials.
We are doing this for
a number of years.
Then, recently they came again.
Then they told us, well,
make it more beautiful.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: So we did, OK?
So we are about
finishing this project.
>>SUE: That's amazing.
>>BURZYNSKI: It's cost us good
amount of money, but making
things more beautiful.
>>SUE: But here you are.
>>BURZYNSKI: And hopefully we
move forward with the approval.
>>SUE: That's amazing.
You have been in
full steam ahead
with your whole life devoted
to this project, obviously.
>>BURZYNSKI: Except
that, of course,
we are living like
in say West Bank
or in Gaza Strip, where
we have consistently
bombs falling in the war.
Work, it's not so easy,
because for the last 35 years,
we have continuously
been attacked
and fighting for survival.
>>SUE: On one form
or another, right?
>>BURZYNSKI: That's right.
>>SUE: Constantly being
attacked and surviving.
Yes.
Well, this is what we have to
do for paradigm shifts, right?
>>BURZYNSKI: That's right.
>>SUE: This is it.
>>BURZYNSKI: I know that
that's what is going to happen,
because I read the theories
of "Scientific Revolutions."
My father gave me the book
about it of Thomas Kuhn,
professor of MIT,
when I was just 22.
So I knew what was in store.
So I was expecting this.
I knew that in
order to win, I will
face very long period of time
of harassment, persecution,
and in order to survive,
I need to live long enough
to survive my critics.
Because they would never agree.
And that's why I also involved
in their research on aging,
to slow down the aging process
so I can live long enough--
>>SUE: Long enough to
carry this through.
>>BURZYNSKI: That's right.
>>SUE: To see it to fruition.
>>BURZYNSKI: Research on aging,
research on brain, on memory,
et cetera, because we
need to have a good memory
and to have good brain
to be able to do it.
>>SUE: Amazing.
>>BURZYNSKI: So hopefully, these
things are coming together.
Cancer research, cancer on
aging, and cancer of memory,
and some out-shoot of this
like Alzheimer, et cetera.
So over the years, we went
into these various directions.
But cancer research project
was given the priority,
because it's so important.
>>SUE: You are a true pioneer.
I was raised by a pioneer
in energy medicine.
I understand this-- what it
takes to have this happen,
and I have such a regard
for what you're doing.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
>>SUE: I want to
know how long did
it take you to start
with this theory
and put it together and
then bring it to a place
where you could try to
present it to your peers.
How did they respond?
What was that about?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
initially, it took something
like seven years.
I came to US in 1970, and just
the day before my birthday
anniversary, President Nixon
announced a war on cancer.
So I said, well, what the heck.
I try, OK.
So I sent application to
NIH, and I got funded.
So I became principal
investigator on the project
from National Cancer Institute.
I was supervising the guys
who could be my father.
I was 27 years old.
And I was supervising
some top specialists.
So they weren't from MD
Anderson Cancer Center,
from Baylor College of Medicine.
But for seven years, I was
conducting first-class research
at Baylor College of Medicine,
funded from the War On Cancer.
And I presented
the results in 1976
to the gathering of something
like 19,000 top scientists
of the United States.
They decided this
was a great thing.
Suddenly, I was
congratulated by everybody,
which is typical for the history
of scientific revolutions.
So it took some like
six years to present it.
The grant which I
received was $55,000.
It's not $6 billion, which
President Nixon gave on cancer.
And I was able to prove
that because of this money,
we cured the first
patient a year later.
So the money which
President Nixon spent
was not spent in vain,
at least in our case,
because you're able to
cure the first cancer
patient from this money, from
$55,000 of this $6 billion,
which was given
for this purpose.
So that's what
happened at that time.
Was congratulated, offered
more money, bigger grant.
And then the thieves
occurred, the guys who
are trying to steal it from us.
And this was the beginning
of the next period
of time, the beginning of war.
And the beginning--
the reason for the war
was to steal it
from us, to make it
beneficial for the
pharmaceutical companies
and for some guys
from the government.
They knew what they were doing.
They will make an agreement with
pharmaceutical guys, the guys
from the government,
the pharmaceutical guys.
So if ever there was
conspiracy in cancer war,
it is the conspiracy where
the government cooperated
with pharmaceutical companies
to put us out of business
and to put me to
prison for 270 years
so they can steal our discovery,
and they can profit from it.
It didn't work, because the
American people helped me.
I never spent even
day in prison,
and I was able to move forward.
>>SUE: And not only
that, it didn't work,
and you've saved thousands
and thousands of lives
in the meantime since then.
>>BURZYNSKI: We
saved many lives.
Of course, many people
came to us too late,
and we couldn't do much.
But many of them
recovered completely,
and they live a normal life.
First time in the
medical history
having a diagnosis with
that type of cancer.
>>SUE: First time.
>>BURZYNSKI: The FDA
knew about it very well.
They realized the value of this.
And that's why we are so
fiercely attacked at that time.
>>SUE: Yeah.
>>BURZYNSKI: It
was some time ago.
It was not today.
And people have changed at FDA.
The guys who attacked us now,
they occupied very nice places
in the large
pharmaceutical companies.
So they live happy life with
a lot of gold in the pocket.
But previously, they're
very anxious to put us out
of business.
>>SUE: We are eternally
grateful for your efforts there.
You've brought some
scans with you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
>>SUE: Let's take a
look at those scans.
>>BURZYNSKI: Sure.
>>SUE: Will you walk us
through some of the results?
>>BURZYNSKI: I'd be glad to.
Yes.
Well, now these are the
most recent results,
and for instance, this scan
shows MRI, baseline MRI,
which is on the left, of the
patient who was diagnosed
with glioblastoma.
A 51-year-old lady
who underwent surgery,
radiation, chemotherapy.
Unfortunately, the
tumors came back.
You see active tumor, which
is shown as a white big spot.
And also you see the rest of
this, which is surrounding,
which is dark area,
which consists mostly
of inflammation.
So after about four
weeks of treatment,
you don't see this
white fragment anymore,
which means that
active tumor is gone.
>>SUE: In a month.
>>BURZYNSKI: In
approximate a month.
It doesn't mean that the patient
is cured, because we still
have some microscopic.
>>SUE: Certainly.
>>BURZYNSKI: She is still
taking the treatment.
I saw her yesterday.
This is after the second
month of treatment,
she's doing great.
So not sign of tumor.
Then, this is another
patient who also--
who came to us from Korea.
She also had surgery,
radiation, chemotherapy.
She also had
experimental treatment.
The tumor came back, and
you see this white big spot,
which is occupying
something like a quarter
of the brain, which is a
recurrent glioblastoma.
A deadly disease,
something like a couple
of month life expectancy.
After four weeks of
treatment, it's gone.
You don't see any of this
and continues to be gone.
>>SUE: So with the
traditional therapies,
with chemo and radiation,
and then a tumor returns--
>>BURZYNSKI: There's
nothing available.
>>SUE: --what time
frame does it return?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well--
>>SUE: Over what
kind of a time frame?
Would we expect it to return in
this same kind of time frame?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
Usually, it's coming back within
something like nine months.
>>SUE: OK.
>>BURZYNSKI: After all
of these treatments.
Sometimes after four months.
Maximum something
like 14 months.
And then it comes back.
Something like 80%
of these people
are dead within six months.
Nothing really is available
as standard treatment.
>>SUE: But you're seeing 6
months, 8 months, 10 years,
12 years.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah.
That's correct.
>>SUE: 19 years.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
That's right.
Living a normal life.
And now, since we have all
of these other medications
available, now we
can do much more,
because we can cover a
bigger number of genes
and give much faster result. And
this is outpatient treatment.
>>SUE: Show us what
else you have here.
>>BURZYNSKI: So
this is PET/CT scan
of a patient who developed
very aggressive form of colon
cancer, which
spread to the liver.
You see white spots,
which are liver tumors.
She went to the best
place in the country.
They gave her something like
three months of life left.
And she came to us.
We got rid of all of her
tumors after about something
like six months or so.
She is now two years
since we treated her.
She is in perfect condition.
She does not have any tumors.
And this is metastatic
colon cancer
for which really there was
very little what can be done.
It was pretty bad
involvement of the liver.
>>SUE: Terrible
prognosis with that.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, this is a
young lady with ovarian cancer.
You can see also PET/CT scan.
To the left, you can see all
of these white spots, which
are tumors, which have spread
in the abdominal cavity, also
in the liver.
And then after nine months,
practically everything is gone.
And she's alive and doing well.
And that was about
also coming something
like two years since then.
And this lady came to us
with malignant lymphoma
and leukemia.
And to the left,
you can see PET scan
image shows the
dark spots, which
are large tumors in the
upper part of the body,
in the lower part of the body.
After about four
months of treatment,
everything cleared up.
You don't see any of this.
It's not yet cured.
It's just remission.
And we need to
continue the treatment
for some time to make sure
that we solidify everything.
We get rid of abnormal genes,
and the patient's fine.
The patient is colon cancer.
She does not have any abnormal
genes in the system anymore.
So she's quite protected.
>>SUE: It's
absolutely phenomenal.
It's phenomenal.
>>BURZYNSKI: And
this can be done.
This is the technology
that's available.
>>SUE: And it can be done.
It's happening.
It's been happening.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah.
The patient does not need
to be in the hospital.
>>SUE: This isn't a theory.
>>BURZYNSKI: This is outpatient.
And most of the time, the
patient taking treatment
at home.
So it's easy thing.
It can save trillion
dollar a year
from medical care costs
in the United States,
because you don't
need hospital beds.
We don't need all of these
sophisticated things, which
are done at the hospital, and
the patient is dying anyway.
>>SUE: Yes.
How does this feel for you?
>>BURZYNSKI: I am
frustrated, because I am
doing this for so many years.
And I am trying to change
beef-eaters to angels
and trying to change beef-eating
good oncologists to angels
is very difficult. But
now I can see someone
like maybe two
conversions per month.
So it's happening.
>>SUE: The mass consciousness
will catch onto this.
>>BURZYNSKI: That's right.
That's right.
>>SUE: People are
going to be requesting.
>>BURZYNSKI: That's right.
They are afraid to
do anything which
can really help these people.
They're so entrenched with the
standard, which really is not
helping much, because the
standard is already too old.
It was good 50 years
ago, not anymore.
Everything is changing.
But the thing is now probably
most of these doctors
will be replaced by artificial
intelligence in the years
to come, because
they don't do much.
They simply follow the
orders from Washington.
So for that purpose,
you may need
to have simply very
good computers,
and they will do
even better job.
>>SUE: Some of your
patients wanted
to share their gratitude for you
regarding your work with them.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
>>JODI FENTON: My
name is Jodi Fenton.
Dr. Burzynski saved
my life 19 years ago
when I was diagnosed with an
inoperable brain tumor known
as an anaplastic astrocytoma.
My name is Dustin Canary, and
Dr. Burzynski saved my life.
>> My wife was treated by
Dr. Stanislaw Burzynski.
An incredible human
being, who I believe
has found something that
could help so many people.
Hannah's prognosis
was like 18 months.
>> Yeah.
>> And that was eight years ago.
>> When I was 2
and 1/2 years old,
I was diagnosed with a stage
IV medulloblastoma brain tumor.
>>FENTON: Conventional
doctors offered me
chemotherapy and radiation,
said that maybe those treatments
would give me five years
to live, perhaps, maybe.
>> 75% of the tumor
was surgically removed,
and the remaining 25%
was treated by Dr.
Burzynski's antineoplastons.
>> I got my scan results,
and like there's nothing,
not even a teeny
tiny little bit left.
>> The remaining tumor was
gone, and I've been in remission
for over 20 years.
>>FENTON: Within six months,
all that was left of the tumor
was scar tissue.
>> I've been cancer free
for like five years.
>> Can I ask you why
you're looking up there.
>> I'm just thinking.
>> Oh, OK.
>> This is my thinking face.
>> Look, it is amazing.
And we never forget all of
the people that helped us.
>> I'm doing my dream job,
working as a firefighter
paramedic, and my wife
is expecting this fall.
>>FENTON: It's now
19 years later.
I'm cancer free.
I'm a thriving mother of two.
Dr. Burzynski saved my life,
and I owe my life to him.
Thank you, Dr. Burzynski.
>> Without Dr. Burzynski, none
of this would be possible.
And I owe my life to him.
>> I believe this guy needs
all of the adulation possible
and for people to wake
up and realize who he is,
what he's done, what he's doing,
and how his treatment could
help so many people.
>> I think we look younger
than we did, better, brighter.
>> I think I look
a lot healthier.
>> I think on that note, must
be the coffee that you drink.
OK.
Goodbye.
Say goodbye.
>> Bye.
>>SUE: Dr. Burzynski, there's
someone else who would also
like to say hello to you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
>>SUE: Hello, Jodi.
Are you there?
>>FENTON: I am here.
>>SUE: Can you hear us?
>>FENTON: Hi, Dr. B.
>>BURZYNSKI: What
a surprise it is.
>>SUE: How amazing.
>>FENTON: Good to see you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Good
to see you today.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: You look so well.
>>FENTON: Thank you.
Thank you.
>>BURZYNSKI: I'm so glad.
>>SUE: Jodi so wanted to share
her appreciation with you
once she knew that
we were doing this.
And she wanted to surprise you.
So what an amazing thing.
Jodi, can you just tell us a
little bit about your world
now, your life, how you're
living, what's happening,
what Dr. Burzynski has had
as a role in your life.
Just share with us.
>>FENTON: Sure.
Well, the bottom
line is I am living.
>>SUE: Yes.
That's it.
>>FENTON: You know, I'm living.
And Dr. B saved my
life 19 years ago.
I was given 6 to 18 months to
live and did Dr. B's treatment,
and within months, I was cured.
So again, 19 years later, I am
now a thriving mother of two
and just living life, which
is what I intended to do.
>>SUE: What an
amazing, amazing thing.
It's really miraculous,
relative to how
we used to think
cancer had to turn out.
It certainly seems like a new
day in the world of cancer.
>>FENTON: Yeah.
>>SUE: And you're a
walking testament to that.
>>FENTON: Absolutely.
>>BURZYNSKI: That is
what is important,
because it's not just
a year two years, which
is the life expectancy of
this type of malignant tumor.
It just completely normal life.
>>SUE: And this
is how many years?
>>BURZYNSKI: 15 or 18 years.
>>FENTON: Yeah, 19.
Next months will be 19 years.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>FENTON: So pretty amazing.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
And her tumor went into
remission very rapidly, just
within something like a couple
of months, if I remember well.
>>SUE: It responded right away.
Your life turned around,
and all of a sudden,
you're just living,
raising a family.
>>BURZYNSKI: And she's
in such a good condition,
because she did
not have radiation,
and she did not
have chemotherapy.
>>FENTON: Right.
>>SUE: You never had
radiation or chemotherapy.
>>FENTON: No.
I had no other treatment.
After I was diagnosed,
I did some consults
with oncologists
and neurosurgeons
here locally in LA
and in San Francisco,
and did not like what
they were saying.
They're like maybe we can
get you an additional five
years of life or so.
And that just did
not sit well with me.
And I had heard
about Dr. Burzynski
from a friend, read the book,
"The Burzynski Breakthrough."
Dr. Burzynski's treatment
made sense to me.
So I went to Houston
and immediately went
on Dr. Burzynski's treatment.
And within two months, the most
aggressive portion of the tumor
was gone.
And within six months, all
that was left was scar tissue.
So yes, no other treatment.
The only treatment I ever
had was Dr. Burzynski's
antineoplaston treatment.
So I could say with 1,000%
confidence, Dr. Burzynski,
you saved my life.
You cured me.
So thank you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
It's a great pleasure to
see you in good shape.
>>SUE: Brings tears to my eyes.
This is an amazing,
amazing moment.
Thank you so much for sharing.
>>FENTON: You're welcome.
And you know, I'm not
the only success story.
So many success stories.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>FENTON: Especially
the touching ones,
where Dr. Burzynski
treated patients
as infants that are
now thriving adults.
And Dr. Burzynski,
you're a blessing.
>>SUE: There's no other way.
Thank you so much for
being with us today, Jodi.
This is such--
>>FENTON: Thank you.
>>SUE: Such a beautiful moment.
Thank you for sharing
it with everyone.
>>FENTON: Thank you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank you.
>>SUE: So with all of this
research and everything
that you're doing,
did you continue
to proceed with the FDA
and getting their approval?
And if so, what was
the outcome there?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, definitely
we did it all the time,
because we understood that if
you like to bring medication
to the American people, we
need to have FDA approval.
And that's what we did.
We did numerous clinical
trials, phase I,
phase II clinical
trials, then randomized
controlled clinical trials,
which proved without any doubt
that we can get rid of some
of the toughest cancers.
However, this was just
in clinical trials.
We still needed the final
stamp of FDA approval to say,
well, it's working this way.
And we are not at
this level yet.
We have one medication
which received permission
as prescription medication,
but two other medications
which are given
intravenously are still
permitted for phase
III clinical trials,
but they're not yet
prescription medication.
But because of the new law,
which is Right to Try law,
we can now use these medications
for terminal cancer patients.
And this is the development
of the last three years,
when the new law has been
introduced and permitted
terminal cancer patients to
have access to medication which
are still investigational.
And this changed
a lot of things,
because now we have
much better results
and much faster results.
>>SUE: And so at
what point did you
start working with these
immunotherapy drugs
in combination
with the ANP groups
to combine this for
such amazing results?
When did that happen
along the line?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well, it happened
when the other drugs became
available.
And this was 1999.
Before that, there was
nothing else available,
and it was only antineoplastons
in clinical trials.
And we had variable success.
We had 60% response.
In the other tumors, we
had only 15% response,
because they were
different genes.
But when the new
medication occurs,
this opened the
new perspectives,
because these medications
covered additional genes.
Currently, we have
130 medications,
which are permitted by
FDA to treat various genes
and to work through
the immune system.
This is a very large number.
And this is
increasing every week.
So because of this, patients
have now much greater chance,
because we run genomic study.
We find that we cover
most important genes,
but there's still one or two
genes which are not covered,
then we prescribe the medication
which is now available.
Not a chemotherapy, but
gene-targeted therapy.
Patient may take just
one tablet a day,
and we have great success.
Just a life-and-death situation,
because the development
moved so quickly.
But still the same principle
was the golden standard.
Find out how the cancer
look under microscope,
put the label on the
cancer, and treat
the way the
Washingtonian will tell
you to treat every patient,
according-- using combination
of chemotherapy, whatever.
And the oncologists
are afraid to do
different things,
because they're
afraid that they
will be persecuted
and this sort of thing.
>>SUE: So standardized.
>>BURZYNSKI: But now, they
should realize every cancer
patient is somewhat different.
>>SUE: This is
what you're doing.
>>BURZYNSKI: That's what we do.
>>SUE: This is tailor made.
Two people come to you
with the same condition,
and you're going to
treat them differently--
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
>>SUE: --based on what their
genetic pool is showing you.
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
But when you treat a
large number of patients,
then you find certain rules.
For instance, uniformly
deadly malignant brain tumor,
glioblastoma.
Glioblastoma now
can be subdivided
on four different subtypes
based on genomic analysis.
Under microscope,
they're the same,
but based on genome
analysis, you
have four different subtypes.
And we found that we
are getting the best
results in classical
type of GBM, which
is covering some 85%
population of these patients.
So when we have patient who
is coming to us with GBM,
we know that there's
something like 85% chance
that they will respond if we
use approach for classical GBM.
So we can start treatment,
because the time is very
important for these people.
And then we can
make some changes
after we get genomic
analysis to design
this for this particular case.
So this means that
after we treat a larger
number of patients, we
may be able to come up
with certain regimen which
may work say for 60%, 80%,
or whatever.
And for patients who have
a very short lifespan,
this will be very important
to start it right away.
And then, based on
genomic analysis,
we can make changes to make
sure that we covered everything.
>>SUE: Dr. Burzynski,
what can patients
expect when they come to see
you in your clinic in Houston?
>>BURZYNSKI: First of all, these
patients have traveled in to us
from all over the world.
And we don't want them to travel
in vain if we cannot help them.
So first of all, we are
reviewing medical records
to see if we can really
help with these patients.
And there are certain
types of cancers
which we don't accept,
because we know that we don't
have really such great results.
But when the
patient comes to us,
then we try to do genomic
analysis as soon as possible.
We try to do some other--
start with evaluation like
scans, laboratories, whatever.
And we like to start
them on the treatment
very quickly, because they have
a very short life expectancy.
And we would like to
know within two, three,
four weeks if the
treatment is working.
And we usually can tell
that it's working or not.
If it's working, it's great.
We are moving
forward, and our goal
is to get rid of the tumors.
Then get rid of the genes.
If we see that it's not working,
then we tell the patient, look,
unfortunately in your case, we
cannot get rid of your cancer.
So it's still-- maybe try
something else, whatever.
And our approach from
the very beginning
is to try to cure cancer.
It's not palliative treatment.
Palliative treatment they
can have everywhere else,
but we are trying to see
can we get rid of this?
If we cannot, we
tell the patient,
you should try something else.
But with current availability
of the medications
and also the ability of
doing genomic analysis,
and the patient does
not need to spend money
for this, because
it's covered, then I
think it opens a
completely new field.
>>SUE: Phenomenal.
>>BURZYNSKI: So now the
doctors should understand
that they can treat
successfully many
different of advanced cancer.
They're sitting on the
gold mine of medication
which can really help
these people, if they
use this in the right way.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: I published the
results of our treatment.
I presented the idea, how
to successfully approach
the treatment of
malignant brain tumors,
advanced colon cancer,
pancreatic cancer,
a tough type of lung cancer.
So I shared this information
with the other doctors.
It's available.
They can do it today
if they want to.
So that's up to them.
>>SUE: Yes.
Amazing.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah.
>>SUE: You're an
amazing individual.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank you.
>>SUE: And have done a
tremendous thing for humanity.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank you.
>>SUE: With Dr.
Burzynski's work,
we see a shift from the
treatment of cancer cells
to the treatment of sick genes.
This is a paradigm shift in
the way we approach cancer
all together.
>>BURZYNSKI: I believe that
it's going to develop this way,
and this was proposed by
some very important people,
like for instance the head of
the National Cancer, et cetera.
They foresee that the
future of oncology
will be to identify the genes
which are causing the problem
and treat these genes
across the board.
So not treat just
the name of cancer.
Treat the genes which
are causing cancer.
>>SUE: Yes.
Let's take a moment.
Let's just reflect
back on what was it
that had you want to begin
to study and research
cancer and this entire
different approach?
Where did that begin for you?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
initially I was not
so much interested in cancer.
I was interested in aging.
So when I was something
like 22 or 23 years old,
I was planning to really do
more research on aging process.
But then I discovered
the new chemicals
in patients, which were
present in normal individuals
and deficient in cancer patient.
And I wanted to see if these
chemicals can do something
for cancer patients.
So that's why I isolated
them, and I tested them,
and then I spent six years on
the National Cancer Institute
grant to develop them further
to prove the point that,
yes, everybody has chemicals
which can fight cancer, which
can kill cancer cells
without killing normal cells.
And they can be developed
into medications,
and these medications
can be used.
And then we found that
they work on the genes,
because at that time, nobody
really know about these genes
yet.
And this opened a new field.
>>SUE: So you've spoken about
comparing the genomic DNA
with a quantum computer.
Can you just say a little
bit more about that?
>>BURZYNSKI: Absolutely.
Yes.
Well, so basically,
we have a program
in our body, which directs
the cells to developing
cancerous way.
So this program
consists of usually
from 40 to 650 abnormal genes,
but they hijack normal genes.
So the total
network is something
like 4,000 genes,
which conspire to build
malignant tumors in our body.
So this is a computer program.
But this computer works
at the molecular level.
So it's not exactly
like quantum computers
which are now developed
based on electrons,
which are called qubits.
So these are quantum
computers, which
are developed based on
encoding of information,
the structure of the molecules
and transferring quantum
of energy from one
molecule to another
to really get this
process going on.
So that's how it works.
So the body has
quantum computers,
which work to develop
normal functional body.
And if they fail,
they develop cancer.
So we need to do what
is called a cyber
war to get rid of the problem in
the body, which is instructing
how to make cancer.
So that's how it works.
Of course, right now,
we are manipulating
this with genomic switches.
We are using chemicals,
which can turn on and off
the activity of the genes.
I think the future will be
quantum switches, quantum
energy, which will cause turning
on genes and turning off genes.
But we need to know precisely
what kind of quantum energy
we need to use, what
frequencies or whatever.
Unless you be done
like Dr. McCoy.
>>SUE: Yes.
So is the objective to
destroy the cancerous genomic
circumstance or is
it to just subdue it?
What is the objective there?
>>BURZYNSKI: We would like
to destroy cancerous genome.
In our body, we
have normal genome,
which is governing the
function of our body.
But there is also
cancerous genome, which
is present in cancerous cells.
And the difference
between these two
is perhaps from 40 to
650 abnormal genes.
Cancer genome needs
to be destroyed.
And it can be destroyed,
because you can see initially
these genes in the blood.
Then ultimately they
may be completely gone.
>>SUE: And is this the objective
results that we're looking for?
How soon do you see
these shifts happening
once treatment has begun?
>>BURZYNSKI: Yes.
Well, first of all, we need
to get rid of the tumors,
because as long as you
have tumors, obviously
you are going to
have abnormal genes.
It takes from one
month to four months
if the patient is funded.
Then after that,
we need to get rid
of abnormal genes,
which typically
takes about three months.
But we have to
understand that this
is at the level of 1
billion parts of a gram
per cubic cc of blood.
It could be that we still have
abnormal genes at 1 quadrillion
part.
But our methods are not
precise enough to do it.
So when we see that the
abnormal genes are gone,
we still would like to continue
treatment for another three
months to know that we
eliminated everything.
And then really repeat
the test from time
to time to see if we
did the right job,
if these genes are gone for
good or if they are coming.
If they are coming back,
use the treatment again
for a short time,
get rid of them
before the tumors
have developed.
>>SUE: Beautiful.
>>BURZYNSKI: This
was the idea which
was presented by the head of the
National Cancer Institute, Dr.
Margaret Bernadine Healy,
who was saying that that's
how the future of
medicine would look like,
and it's around 2008.
Unfortunately, she died
from a brain tumor.
But that's what she was
proposing, that this would
be the future of medicine.
Just find these tiny
changes in the genes,
treat this, get
rid of the disease,
and then follow up
if this is for good
or it's still coming back.
>>SUE: It's too bad she
wasn't under your care.
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
unfortunately, she didn't.
>>SUE: So what is
your current project?
What are you working on now?
>>BURZYNSKI: Well,
currently, we would
like to finish the project
which FDA wanted us to do,
which means modify our
pharmaceutical facility,
and we are finishing this now.
Then we like to move with two
additional products, which
we've been trying to obtain
FDA approval for the treatment
of recurrent
glioblastoma, which is,
as you can see
very deadly disease
and in which you can
have quick results.
But we would like to have
two projects in this area,
one is the treatment
which is administered
in tablets and the other
the treatment administered
intravenously, depending how
bad is the patient's condition.
Then after that, we
would like to have
similar product in
pancreatic cancer-- advanced
p0ancreatic cancer.
And then, of course, if we
have additional resources,
we would like to go back
to the projects which
we did in the past like aging
project and brain research,
which is memory and Alzheimer.
Of course, we abandoned
this, because we
didn't have enough resources,
and we didn't have enough time
to be involved in this.
But in the aging project,
we are able to extend
the life in animal
experiments something
like three to five times
in animal experiments.
And in Alzheimer project,
we are able to identify
the genes which are switched
off in Alzheimer's patients.
And this is causing
the neurons to die.
Last week, there
was a big bad news
that the current research on
the Alzheimer's was directed
on removing amyloid
plaque failed completely,
because the patient, the plaques
will reduce, they got worse.
So now we need to move
in different direction.
>>SUE: In different direction.
>>BURZYNSKI: And that's what
I published 12 years ago,
that there are genes
which are switched off
in Alzheimer's disease.
And this is causing
neurons to die.
If they can be turned on,
then hopefully the neurons
will survive.
And you can alleviate
the problem.
>>SUE: This whole world of
epigenetics and allowing genes
to be turned on.
>>BURZYNSKI: Genetically,
these genes can be turned on.
And the question is to design
new generation of medication,
which can be done because
the research in this area
moved very fast.
I know what genes are
involved, and these genes
need to be simply
turned on genetically.
>>SUE: Yes.
>>BURZYNSKI: So it can be done.
>>SUE: Well, I'm
thrilled to hear
that you're behind the wheel
on this type of research,
because you are
helping to steward
this in a different direction,
which is greatly, greatly
needed.
>>BURZYNSKI: Yeah.
>>SUE: Thank you, Dr. Burzynski.
It's been a pleasure to have
you on "Healing Matrix."
And those of you who want to
contact the Burzynski Clinic,
please visit
www.burzynskiclinic.com.
Thank you for watching
"Healing Matrix,"
and we will leave you today
with more of Dr. B's success
stories.
>>BURZYNSKI: Thank
you very much.
[MUSIC PLAYING]